# Diabetes-Prediction-Using-Machine-Learning-Techniques
 Model development is based on categorization methods such as logical Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, KNN, SVM algorithms. 
Introduction
Diabetes is caused due to increase in blood sugar level and it is considered as one of the deadliest and chronic disease. If it is untreated or unidentified there will be a chance of occurring many complications. Many complications occur if diabetes remains untreated and unidentified. The tedious identifying process results in the insisting of a patient to a diagnostic centre and consulting doctor. But the rise in machine learning approaches solves this critical problem. The motive of this study is to design a model which can prognosticate the likelihood of diabetes in patients with maximum accuracy. Therefore, two machine learning classification algorithms namely Logistic Regression and Random Forest are used in this experiment to detect diabetes at an early stage. Experiments are performed on Bangladesh Diabetes Dataset (BDD) which is sourced from Kaggle machine learning repository. The performances of these two algorithms are evaluated on various measures like Precision, Accuracy, F-Measure, and Recall. Accuracy is measured over correctly and incorrectly classified instances. Results obtained show Random Forest outperforms with the highest accuracy of 99% compared with Logistic Regression algorithm. These results are verified using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves in a proper and systematic manner. Diabetes is a chronic disease with the potential to cause a worldwide health care crisis. Diabetes mellitus or simply diabetes is a disease caused due to the increased level of blood glucose. Various traditional methods, based on physical and chemical tests, are available for diagnosing diabetes. However, early prediction of diabetes is quite challenging task for medical practitioners due to complex interdependence on various factors as diabetes affects human organs such as kidney, eye, heart, nerves, foot etc. Data science methods have the potential to benefit other scientific fields by shedding new light on common questions. One such task is to help make predictions on medical data. Machine learning is an emerging scientific field in data science dealing with the ways in which machines learn from experience. The aim of this project is to develop a system which can perform early prediction of diabetes for a patient with a higher accuracy by combining the results of different machine learning techniques. This project aims to predict diabetes via three different supervised machine learning methods including. Ensemble learning is a data analysis technique that combines multiple techniques into a single optimal predictive system to evaluate bias and variation, and to improve predictions. Diabetes data, which included 17 variables, were gathered from the UCI repository of various datasets